earlier this year I had a chance to
attend a talk between Adam silver who's
the Commissioner of the NBA and Nate
silver who's a journalist normally works
in politics and while there was a ton of
interesting stuff there that actually
really applies to eSports one of the
interesting things that Adam silver said
and I forget if this was him just
directly saying it or quoting someone
who previously worked at the NBA but he
said that salary caps are not meant to
protect teams from players but rather
that salary caps are meant to protect
teams from themselves
I remember this quote very very well I'm
gonna tell you why in a second and stuck
with me and why I actually think now is
the time to start considering salary
caps and na LCS but first I want to
apologize for the production of this
video once more I am traveling I have a
very janky setup to make sure this works
so apologies for it also I am in the UK
and I can't figure out how to get the
air conditioning working in this room
sorry the heater working in this room so
you can kind of imagine how terrified I
am at the type of person that I'm
becoming as I'm sitting here with my
jacket on in the UK ranting about
eSports it's terrifying person to become
and then finally I want to before we get
in the video just give a shout out to my
support page which is Travis Capcom
slash support if you guys want me to
keep doing these videos and that ended
up working at a team next year or
something else it would be really great
if you can help me or myself and get
this thing going
now let's get into it so I think it's
very funny that I'm doing this video
because a couple of years ago I think it
was literally to these forums so quickly
started to tell I did a video right
around the same time of year I think in
December talking about how I thought
salaries should become public I actually
still really believe that salary should
be public sorry specifically player
salaries in na LCS and maybe eSports
more broadly and at the time though the
reason one of my big reasons why I said
that this should be the case is that
players don't have any power in their
relationship with team owners and teams
and I really felt as though some of the
teams were underpaying some of their
players or rather the players did not
have the negotiating
capacity and the resources that they
need in order to actually negotiate
these deals right so it's important in
my mind for salaries to become public
and I still agree with that sentiment I
still think that's the case because even
next year when you know salaries are
gonna start going crazy
I do think you'll see instances where
some players who do not know what other
players in their role are making will be
unable to negotiate for the terms that
they should be able to so you might have
somebody who is not nearly as good as
some of the top players making twice
what some of the top players are because
the top players don't know how to
negotiate with our current team so I do
think that that should be the case
however what has changed dramatically
since I did this video is that players
are no longer
I think getting dramatically underpaid
and I do think that the power has
shifted to the players and there's a lot
of different reasons for this but let's
dive in one thing is and maybe the
biggest thing is all the capital coming
on space venture capital or the non
endemic sport teams that are coming in
etc all these guys are here to prove
themselves to try to figure something
out to try to show that they are the
best and they gotta show results right
if you are you know one of these
non-endemic sports teams and you have
invested in and you just go into 10th
place for the first two years the first
two splits even even even the first flip
it's not a good look for you you become
kind of a joke to the audience and you
know people who are spending money on
this thing around so looking at their
GM's and saying why are you giving this
trash roster what's the problem here why
can't we show results blah blah blah
right so there's immense pressure for
these guys show results which also means
that they need to have a great roster
which means a lot of them are willing to
pay top talents now sorry top price for
talent it's what I am hearing jet lagged
to hell either way you know so you have
this instance where you have the
situation where a lot of people are
starting just going to eat
a lot of money on players right I think
we've all heard the rumor that reignover
was somehow making like 7 RK 800 paid
was the highest paid player last year
I've heard other rumors that some of the
players on dig were around that if not
higher that's kind of crazy right and
what I've also heard is that there
there's a chance that we might have even
more players hitting that area in 2018
now a lot of you guys are saying that's
great that's great I love these players
they deserve to be rock stars they go
all over the world you know the top
players compete on stages in front of
millions of people of course they
deserve to be making a ton of money
right and overall I agree with you the
problem is is we're gonna go back to the
same thing that I parked on so many
times and videos recently that nobody
really talks about and I know people
start to think I'm just like a crazy
person but that word is sustainability
right I do think that eSports is getting
pretty inflated in terms of the
valuations of everything from players
the teams to startups to whatever and
that is not a good thing at all you know
even if we don't enter into some sort of
economic recession and the next couple
of years which you know so you know the
world is a very unstable place right now
even a world where everything's a stable
at a certain point in time
everyone's gonna start to want to make
their money back and they're gonna say I
paid 13 million for this LCS team
because remember that's that's what I
cost to get into the LCS unless you are
an existing team or acquiring a
different one right
so the supposed four teams that have are
getting into the LCS they're paying 13
million to get in I want you guys to
understand that there is a very long
road ahead of them before they can make
back that 13 million right even break
even and a lot of times investors want
to see you know multiples of profit
coming out of that right so they don't
they don't want to just break even
people want to show that they've made 50
million off this deal or 100 million or
whatever however over however many years
right they really want to see
exponential results and right now
the money is not there and this is goes
back to another frustration that I have
which is that there's no transparency in
this industry in terms of the costs and
salaries and sponsorships and all this
kind of stuff right only recently has
Riot basically been forced to because
obviously when it come out talked about
the numbers that they're looking for
right which is the 10 million the 3
million here etc but everything else is
pretty much shrouded in darkness but I
can tell you guys that these teams are
not making very much what do you think
about the amount of teams and the LCS
last year that had like no sponsors or
maybe one or two sponsors and oftentimes
the sponsors were not very you know they
were endemic sponsors probably a very
small marketing budgets etc so what is
very true I believe is very true is that
you have a lot of teams that are
spending more money on just paying their
five players and often times remember
their subs you have to pay for coaches
etc but just the five players they
probably are not even making back the
money that they are spend on the five
players so we start to get into an issue
here where you start having teams that
are spending thirteen million to get
into the LCS and then let's say they are
spending 2.5 million 3 million 5 million
on the salaries for their players they
now have to feel five other players
remembered because now everybody has to
have ten you have to pay for coaches and
analysts you have to pay not just their
salaries but there's an expectation
you're gonna have a team house people
are getting offices there you pay for
food in a lot of cases a lot of players
and teams teams just supply food you
have to pay consulting fees for sports
psychologists or psychiatrists or
whatever other you know psycho people
that need to come in and help your team
succeed this money is gonna start adding
up and if you're gonna have a hard time
making 13 million back for this
investment you'd have a lot more of a
struggle making all this additional
money after the fact
now again you know there are reasons to
believe this that revenue should start
going up for NALC
there's gonna be reps airing there's
this BAM tech deal remember MLB events
medias on this deal with Riot Games
about a year ago we haven't really heard
anything about that right so it's
probably not doing too much on the
financial front by you know the t-mobile
stuff and all I kind of think but it's
unlikely that riot is even making money
directly of the marketing thing you know
rather obviously a lot of people point
out that they make money off of just
effective this is an advertisement for
riot and League Legends but they are
their money from these advertisers might
not even be paying back the bird's nest
is expensive and flying a bunch of
musical acts over is expensive and a
giant fake dragon is expensive so going
back to the age-old rant for me over the
last couple months nobody's making money
and salaries are going up and up and up
and of course they're going up because
if you just spent 13 million you have to
prove that you can do this and
unfortunately the no one is able to
really talk about this openly no one is
instead of I sacrifice openly and how
much money they are losing because the
if they do the valuations of all their
teams are going down you know imagine
you are an na LCS team owner and you've
been around for a while and you know you
need to raise money to get into League
of Legends maybe you want to get into it
or watch League if not the season the
next you have to be able to raise funds
you know that you spend years of your
life creating this team and worked
ridiculous hours and flown all over the
world to make sure that you know not
just your league of Legends team but
your other eSports teams succeed people
start coming in and offering you you
know we think your company's worth 30
million 50 million 100 million who knows
what are you really going to go oh well
I'm going to go out there and start
telling everybody that eSports is just
losing tons of money and everyone's
bleeding out or what no one wants to
talk about this because it'll make the
valuations of their teams go down so you
know there's a whole another video that
I could do just about the bubble thing
that
is hopefully team owners won't get angry
with me for saying this because no no
their investors are watching my youtube
channel anyway but my point is we are
not in a sustainable ecosystem and
player salaries are just going to start
ballooning I've already heard rumors
that they are for next year and this is
not good
now this is not good not just for the
team owners it's not good for the fans
or for riot because if everybody starts
pulling out because they're losing a ton
of money what do you think happens to
the LCS you go back to basically like
2013 2014 you want to go back to a
studio that doesn't have an audience do
you want to go back to possibly you know
if things get really bad back to online
tournaments maybe some of you do because
some of you don't like the LCS I don't
know but I don't think it'd be a good
thing and players should not be happy
about this because again well they might
be making Bank right now they are
probably not going to be making Bank in
a couple of years if all these guys
disappear but if they have a long term
vision of this stuff this is a bit of
the problem because players are very
very unlikely to ever have long term
thinking about stuff you know it's very
much like what am I going to do this
year and for some of these players they
don't know how long they're going to
keep playing right but it is it is
important that the players realize that
they have a chance here to play for the
next five or ten years and by the way
not just play as a player but perhaps
become a coach or an analyst or some
sort of influence or with one of these
teams it is in everyone's best interest
for everyone to start breaking even and
then eventually making money so even the
players that are making a ton of money
they should not you know they should
have a vested interest in making sure
that this continues and that is why I
think is in everyone's best interest
to step back and really consider if
there should be a salary cap now for
those of you in Europe I know that there
are very few instances of salary caps
but and North America is very very
common for those of you that don't know
a salary cap is simply you know it
depends on the league but often times
there's you can spend only this amount
of money on your entire team salaries
you know or you can only spend up to
this amount on a play
and so this has several different
effects one is it helps make sure keeps
the cost down of the team and make sure
that they're able to show profit another
thing is it prevents one team from just
buying all the best talent because
they've decided to just lose money for
five years and create a dynasty or you
know win everything because you could
just buy everything and you're just you
don't care you're spent all the money so
it also creates a sense of
competitiveness between all the
different teams because theoretically
they're all working with up to the same
amount of resources it was very common
in North America and I do think that for
the and by the way if you are a European
fan I should point out that this would
benefit you because na teams would no
longer have its you know seemingly
limitless funds to just poach all your
players from your league you know they'd
have to suddenly decide do they want to
play pay for the best North American mid
laner maybe the only North American mid
laner or and that that'll be you know
maybe expensive but maybe a little bit
less than recruiting top EU talent or
whatever you know basically there's less
money for them to spend which is
probably good for you because they're
spending a lot of money trying to get
all your table so if you're a European
fan you should be a fan of this idea and
then I think again kind of going back to
what I'm saying
I do think it just makes sense for the
Players Association which is I now still
kind of in its raw elements riot and the
team owners to at least have this
conversation if they have not already
and look at the numbers start to have an
understanding of what salaries are
looking like they're going to be next
year and release it down on a table and
say you know and again bring the Players
Association in there as well so that the
players aren't getting screwed and start
to say how let's model this out how much
money do we think we're gonna make next
year the year after that how much money
do we think we're gonna spend what do
these player salaries looking like is
there a path to profitability underneath
these terms and the sir current
situation or should we consider creating
a salary cap so that the teams aren't
incentivize just throw town money and
basically burn themselves
so anyway that's my take on salary caps
and sort of my consideration around the
stuff you'll notice I did not name this
video any LCA should have salary caps I
said should na LCS have salary caps and
that's because I think for the first
time in na LCS history possibly an
eSports history you know it's it's maybe
worth at least having the conversation I
hope you enjoyed the content of in you
can check me out right here on my
youtube channel if you haven't please
subscribe and be sure to consider
consider because again I don't have a
salary that can be kept I don't have a
salary at all
so forwarding me over to Travis got for
tech comp slash support thanks for
watching